Add ONNX Runtime training benchmark (#592)
huggingface/optimum: docs/source/onnxruntime/usage_guides/trainer.mdx

specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
-->

# How to accelerate training with ONNX Runtime

Optimum integrates ONNX Runtime Training through an `ORTTrainer` API that extends `Trainer` in [Transformers](https://huggingface.co/docs/transformers/index).

> With the solution, training time can be improved by greater than 35% for many popular Hugging Face models compared to PyTorch under eager mode.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With this extension, training time can be reduced by more than 35% for many popular Hugging Face models compared to PyTorch under eager mode.
```
just taste

Author: Looks good.

[`ORTTrainer`] and [`ORTSeq2SeqTrainer`] APIs make it easy to compose __[ONNX Runtime (ORT)](https://onnxruntime.ai/)__ with other features in [`Trainer`](https://huggingface.co/docs/transformers/main_classes/trainer).
It contains feature-complete training loop and evaluation loop, and supports hyperparameter search, mixed-precision training and distributed training with multiple [NVIDIA](https://techcommunity.microsoft.com/t5/ai-machine-learning-blog/accelerate-pytorch-transformer-model-training-with-onnx-runtime/ba-p/2540471)
and [AMD](https://cloudblogs.microsoft.com/opensource/2021/07/13/onnx-runtime-release-1-8-1-previews-support-for-accelerated-training-on-amd-gpus-with-the-amd-rocm-open-software-platform/) GPUs.

> With ONNX Runtime backend, [`ORTTrainer`] and [`ORTSeq2SeqTrainer`] take advantage of:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Through the ONNX Runtime Training backend, [`ORTTrainer`] and [`ORTSeq2SeqTrainer`] take advantage of:
```

Author: Do you want to be precise about the ort backend here is specified for training?

Reviewer: `With ONNX Runtime backend` just sound not super good. Maybe with "the"? I don't know

Author: Added.

> * Computation graph optimizations: node fusions, node eliminations...

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Computation graph optimizations: node fusions, node eliminations.
```

Reviewer: Could we explicit it more then? `...` is not very informative

* Efficient memory planning
* Kernel optimization
* ORT fused Adam optimizer: batches the elementwise updates applied to all the model's parameters into one or a few kernel launches

> * More efficient FP16 optimizer: eliminates a great deal of device to hos memory copies

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* More efficient FP16 optimizer: eliminates a great deal of device to host memory copies
```

* Mixed precision training

> * ...

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> Test it out to achieve __lower latency, higher throughput, and larger maximum batch size__ while training models in 🤗Transformers!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Test it out to achieve __lower latency, higher throughput, and larger maximum batch size__ while training models in 🤗 Transformers!
```

## Performance

> The chart shows impressive acceleration __from 39% to 130%__ for Hugging Face models with Optimum when __using ONNX Runtime and DeepSpeed ZeRO Stage 1__ for training.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The chart below shows impressive acceleration __from 39% to 130%__ for Hugging Face models with Optimum when __using ONNX Runtime and DeepSpeed ZeRO Stage 1__ for training.
```

The performance measurements were done on selected Hugging Face models with PyTorch as the baseline run, only ONNX Runtime for training as the second run, and ONNX

> Runtime + DeepSpeed ZeRO Stage 1 as the final run, showing maximum gains. The Optimizer used for the baseline PyTorch runs is the AdamW optimizer and the ORT Training
> runs use the Fused Adam Optimizer. The runs were performed on a single Nvidia A100 node with 8 GPUs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Runtime + DeepSpeed ZeRO Stage 1 as the final run, showing maximum gains. PyTorch baseline runs use AdamW optimizer, while the ORT Training runs use the Fused Adam optimizer.
```

is there a reference for fused adam?

Author: No doc from ORT' side, it is available in `ORTTrainingArguments`.

Reviewer: 🫠
